# BB84 QKD Protocol Definition
**QuTech / edX**: Quantum-Internet working group  
**Request for Quantum (RFQ)**: 0001  

## Abstract
This document specifies a definition and pseudo-code for the quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol known as BB84 [[1]](https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/82447194.pdf).

## Introduction
The BB84 protocol enables two distant parties, (historically known as Alice and Bob), to share a secret key. Quantum mechanics ensures that this key cannot be read by an eavesdropper (also, historically known as Eve) without causing a traceable disturbance to the communications.

## Protocol Definition
1- Alice chooses two uniformly random bit strings **_a = a<sub>0</sub>a<sub>1</sub>a<sub>2</sub>..._** and **_b = b<sub>0</sub>b<sub>1</sub>b<sub>2</sub>..._**. The string **_a_** contains the bits of the secret key to be sent to Bob; the string **_b_** is a basis string (see step 2). At the same time, Bob chooses a unifromly random bit string **_c_**.

    The bits from the string a are going to be sent to Bob, one by one, as follows:
  
2- For every **_a<sub>i</sub>_** and **_b<sub>i</sub>_**: 
* If **_a<sub>i</sub> = 0_** and **_b<sub>i</sub> = 0_** Alice sends a qubit with the state **_|0>_** to Bob.
* If **_a<sub>i</sub> = 1_** and **_b<sub>i</sub> = 0_** Alice sends a qubit with the state **_|1>_** to Bob.
* If **_a<sub>i</sub> = 0_** and **_b<sub>i</sub> = 1_** Alice sends a qubit with the state **_|+>_** to Bob.
* If **_a<sub>i</sub> = 1_** and **_b<sub>i</sub> = 1_** Alice sends a qubit with the state **_|->_** to Bob.

3- For every qubit that Bob receives:
* If **_c<sub>i</sub> = 0_** Bob measures the received qubit in the **_0/1_** basis. 
* If **_c<sub>i</sub> = 1_** Bob measures the received qubit in the **_+/-_** basis.
Bob stores the outcomes of the measurements in a string **_r_**.

4- Alice sends Bob the string **_b_** and Bob sends Alice the string **_c_**.

5- Alice and Bob compare the basis strings **_b_** and **_c_**. Depending on where the string do not match, the corresponding bit in the string **_r_** gets thrown out; i.e., for every **_b<sub>i</sub> ≠ c<sub>i</sub>_**, Alice and Bob discard **_r<sub>i</sub>_**. This produces a string **_s_**.

    If there was no eavesdropper, both Alice and Bob should have the same string **_s_**. If there was an eavesdropper, the strings will not match. Alice and Bob check if the strings match:

6- Alice chooses part of her string, and asks Bob to check if the corresponding part in his string matches. If they match, do nothing. If they don't match, abort the protocol.

7- If the protocol was not aborted Alice and Bob discard the bits that were used for the check in step 6. The remaining string **_k_** is the shared secret key.



## Pseudo-Code (Alice's side)
To be completed...

## Pseudo-Code (Bob's side)
To be completed...

## References
[1] *Quantum cryptography:
Public key distribution and coin tossing* - Charles H. Bennett, Gilles Brassard - https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/82447194.pdf






